So let's jump right into the function introspection coding section.
So the first thing we're going to do is define a function.
So let's go ahead and create something that say def my funk and know common front that would be legal.
So let's go ahead and create some parameters that say A B equals.
Wanna see those too.
So we'll create three positional parameters with two of them we'll have the full values.
We'll take a star on.
We'll take a keyword only parameter.
Another keyword only parameter but this one with a default value and another keyword only parameter
with again a default value and then we'll also take a variable number of keyword only arguments and
we're not going to do anything with this.
Actually yeah let's go ahead and do some stuff.
Let's say I equals 10.
Let's say J equals 20 and then I'm just going to do nothing.
So I'm going to a non.
Essentially if I don't define a return statement it returns None.
OK.
So we'll do that.
And let's do a few rotations as well.
So for that I'm going to put that on the front lines and will annotate some of the things.
Let's go ahead and rotate a.
This is a mandatory positional.
This one is an optional positional.
I don't know just some things over here.
Let's maybe notate on an extra position Ole's here and provide extra P-word only here and then maybe
we'll also do the notation for the return arm does nothing.
OK since it doesn't actually do anything.
All right so now we've got this function defined.
And as we've seen before we have things like docstring and annotations.
It's actually at a docstring as well.
So this let's say this function does nothing but does have various parameters and annotations.
All right.
So let's leave it at that.
For there we go.
So remember now we can look at my phunk down the dock and we have the know the docstring.
We can look at my phunk Dondre and rotations and we have the annotations that we see that we provided.
Now my fonk is just an object which means objects have attributes and we can add attributes to objects
very easily.
We can say my phunk may be short description will say equals and then we just maybe make it equal to
a string.
And you know all this is a function that does nothing much.
OK so now it's attached to my func and we can actually recall that.
And we can just take a look at that.
And there we go right.
My short description is this string over here.
Now in fact we can look at all the attributes that are available on my phone.
And there's a bunch of them and we'll look at some of them in more detail.
But you'll notice that the dark attribute is there.
Right.
The Done the duck with that's the one we saw earlier the notations is there as well done through notations
as they are.
And the very end we'll find that our short description is also in there as well.
It's now another attribute of that function.
But the thing is a function.
So let's look at a few other ones.
Let's look at Dundon name right so I can say my funk dumdum name.
And that returns my funk.
Well yeah we know that this is the name but remember that the name of the function may not be what you
put in here.
Right.
Suppose you go code somewhere maybe you passed your parameter in your function as a parameter as an
argument to a function call that inside the function.
Maybe you want to know what's the name of the function.
Let's say we do something like this.
Def let's call it func call
and let's say we have with bason F and here we want to print half done the name right.
We want to know what what is the name of that function.
Well if we do phunk call of my funk so now we pass in the function my funk I remember inside this method
it doesn't know about this.
My phunk name right it only knows about F now f and my phunk point to the same object.
Let's go ahead and do this let's go ahead and print ID of f k while we're at it.
And then here I want to show you very quickly what the ID of my funk is writes.
There should be nothing new.
So now let's go ahead and call this function.
You can see the ID is the same.
And then you can see the name therefore is the name of the object at that location which is my funk.
All right.
So that's why the dumdum name can be useful.
Next let's look at the defaults and kw defaults attributes so these two over here this one and this
one so we can say my phunk dhanda defaults.
And there we have one and two.
Remember what our defaults were.
This was the function right.
We had B was 1 and C was 2 as the default.
So that's what we have here.
And then my phone Karumba we had to keyword only our arguments with default with three key only arguments
but two of them only defaults.
So we can look at the KW defaults property and it's a dictionary that gives us the key value pairs where
the key is the keyword name of the parameter name and the value is the default that was assigned to
it.
Right.
So that's an easy way of returning default.
But you'll notice that you only have two values in this tussle over here.
So the number of positional was three but we only got a table containing two values because only two
of them had default values.
Now remember that once you start defining a default value or assigning default values to a parameter
every parameter after that in the positions has to have a default value as well.
So be careful with that or remember that because this means that when you want to try and match up your
list of parameters of positional parameters with your default values you have to work your way from
right to left.
So two is going to see.
One is for B and then a has nothing.
Right.
So just keep that in mind.
You don't have the same problem with the keyword only because it's a dictionary where the keys are the
parameter names next.
Let's look at my phunk.
Let's look at the code attribute.
Now the code attribute is itself an object.
Right.
It's a code object.
And so we can look at what that object actually HEFCE we can look at Derf of code.
And that gives us a bunch of things right.
It's got this these like Dershowitz got the property because well that's what gets called when we call
this function.
Right.
But it has some other interesting ones that we're going to look at like our count and name.
Right and the names.
So let's take a look at that.
So let's say we have my phone done the code of the Dunder and then-CEO name for example.
Well that just gives us the name of the function.
So we already know how to do that.
We can just use the than the name on my phone directly.
But you also have this my phunk code Co.
Var name.
Right.
And that gives you the name of the variables and some extra stuff.
So here we have the variables the position calls a b and c..
Here we have the keyword only arguments then we have this arms and Kwame's right.
So this is still all the parameters that we had.
And then we have this I and J What's IMJ.
Well remember when we defined this thing I put in these two kind of dummy variables.
I will do anything with them but we declared them them isn't in the scope of my phunk.
We have not only all the parameter names right.
These are variables in the scope of my fund but we also have i and j.
And that's what variable names does it actually also includes any local variables that you acquired
inside the function.
So that can be pretty pretty handy to figure out what's inside my function right.
What's going on inside.
Ah another one that you have is my fonk code and I want to show you this one.
Not because it's particularly useful by itself but because there's a catch.
You might think that oh I can't write this one over here is going to tell me how many arguments I have
in my function definition.
And here it says three.
Well that's a problem because what about you know his A and B and C there's three what about Star args
and kw 1 kw 2 kw 3 and star stock was right.
It doesn't show up there so it's only showing us the positional arguments right.
So again just keep that in mind.
It only shows us the positional arguments but that can be useful because if we look at the default over
here right and we want to know the defaults right we want to know the variable and the default value.
Well we can pick up the default from Dondre defaults then we can pick up all the variable names that
start with the positional is using Covello names and then we can pick out all of that we can pick out
which ones are the actual positional arguments.
It's the first three.
That's what our count is giving us.
It's the first three here.
All right now you can certainly work that way.
But much better and or at least much easier is to use the Expect module.
So we can just import the inspect module and actually going to do a little bit more I'm going to say
from inspect import is function is method and is routine.
Some want to use those three functions just to show you some stuff so we can use this function to look
if something is a function Let's go ahead and declare just a variable that make it an integer and we
can ask is Function A.
Of course the answer is false.
It's not a function.
But if we pass in my func then we get that is true.
Now we have is method.
Let's just pass in my phone.
I'm not going to use a again.
We know that that's not a method either and neither is my phunk.
So remember the distinction we make between functions and methods that was discussed in the lecture
in the previous video.
I tend to use the words a little loosely but methods are things that are bound to a class which are
an object or something like that.
Right.
A function is more of a standalone thing a lambda expression generates a function right.
Def will generate a function but depending on how you use it it will be a method so methods and functions
are both callable.
Right you can call them so they look the same they kind of behave the same but there are some differences
there are some you know pretty major differences actually between the two because when you have a method
it's bound to an object or class so it's X actually expecting to receive the class or the object as
a parameter where it's being called.
So it's a little bit different.
So let's go ahead and look at that.
Let's go ahead and create a class with say my class and let's create a function here let's just call
it def f.
Now this is going to be an instance function.
So it expects to receive the instance as a parameter.
That's what we do here.
We'll see this in detail in the object oriented section.
I'm going to do anything with that.
I'm just going to return that and I want to show you that we can call is function.
My class F..
And the answer is true.
It's a function because it is not bound to my class.
On the other hand if we do my object equals my class instance.
So now I have just created a new instance of my class my object points to that.
Then if we look at is a function of my object.
Now if we get that it's false.
It is not a function.
Why.
Because it's actually a method
it's actually call of f..
All right.
So there we go.
So that's true.
All right so keep in mind that there's a difference between function and method not you're not concerned
about the difference.
You can just ask Is it a routine.
So you can say is my object of f a routine.
The answer is true is routine of my class F..
Then it's true as well because they both say because they're both the same because it's either a function
or a method and it's a function in one case method in the other case it doesn't matter.
It's a routine.
Right.
A routine is it.
Either of those next then we can look at and they inspect all the always how to get the source code
for the function back.
So remember what our source code was here.
Right.
Essentially we had this docstring notation and then we had the arm those two dummy variables and we
could add some other stuff in here.
Maybe I'll see a equals I Plus J return.
I just want to add a few more lines of code to this function.
Now let's go back here and let's look at the inspect.
So inspect we have the get source function in the inspect module and we can pass in all function my
funk.
And there we go.
Here's the code right.
This is the entire code.
We have the function header with the annotations.
You have the docstring over here you've got no new lines you've got your line of code equals turn jiggles
20.
So you want we can make it look a little niceish by just putting a printed front that's actually printed
out.
And here we go.
Right.
We have a function right there.
So that might come in handy especially if you try and create Lets say you know classes of functions
or you know something that maybe documents code right.
Very handy to be able to pull the code back out of the Python code right.
You can call any function of course if I have something like this F equals my phunk remember it's no
different right F-stop points to the same object.
You still get the same thing.
Now we can also look at get a module that's another thing in the inspect function inspect module and
we want to know where something is defined potentially.
So let's look at my phone first.
Well it tells us that my phone is defined in the module main.
Well that's where we're at.
Right.
We're inside this module main when we're inside this notebook but you can also use that for looking
at built in things we can look at.
We get model of the print function let's say.
Right.
And it tells us it's in the module called built ins.
So there's a module called built ins in Python.
This is where print lives and it's a built in module.
Right.
If we import math and then we inspect and get this module on Mathcad let's say sign the sign function
I have to spell correctly write or type correctly.
Then we get that.
It tells us that math taught sign is in the math module and it's built in.
Now again it's useful for the example that you know you've got a function you know know where it is
so you can find out its name.
You can find out it's code you can find out where it was defined.
Right.
Kind of useful stuff.
You can find out about its parameters about its rotations.
It's strings.
So there's a lot going on with introspection that you can do.
Let's look at something else.
Let's look at let's go back to this function here and let me go ahead and type in maybe comment and
I'm going say to do fix this function right.
So here I've got a comment that immediately precedes my function.
Now I've got some code over here that say I've got you know on dummy code you know maybe I pulled 100
OK and I execute that.
So I've got some comments right just as we put normally in our code.
I've got a comma in some code then I'm documenting something I want to document something about this
function.
Typically I'll put a comment right before the function.
And very often I'll use it to do this way I can search for to do with my code and find out what do I
need to do still.
You know as a reminder a lot of ideas will actually pick up on that and we'll collect all that information
for you and present it in a view where you can then go and look at a list essentially of Tutu's.
And you can click on them and go directly to that piece of code.
So that's really handy.
And one way that you can get that is by looking at the comments.
That's kind of a test right.
This comment is kind of attached to this function.
That's how we look at it as we're coding and so Python can actually do that for us as well.
And we can look at inspect dot get comments of my funk and it will return that comment right here to
do fix this function.
Now if I have multiple lines.
Right.
Currently does nothing but should that do.
Blah blah blah.
OK so it's over two lines of comments.
If we rerun this well we get both lines right.
To fix this backslash and write for the new line and then the next line of a comment.
So again pretty handy if you're writing some piece of code and you want to pick up let's say all the
comments that are associated to function.
That's not the same as a docstring.
Right.
My phunk Dundalk is different.
It's that document string that we have inside the function.
This is more something of where we are writing a comment outside of the function but we want it associated
with the function as long as you keep it right before the function definition itself.
It will get picked up and attached.
Next let's look at the signature.
How can we introspect the signature of a function.
We've already seen some of it right using the code with code count and code names and defaults and kw
defaults.
But it takes a little bit of work to you know kind of get things that we want out of all that.
So then specked module really clean that up for us quite a bit as well.
And we're going to look at it from the inspect module.
We're going to look up the signature and we're going to take a look at Signature my phunk right.
Let's take a look at that.
You'll notice that it returns an object right.
So this is an object of type signature.
So it has properties as well right.
It has attributes.
So we can look at the attributes by losing Duer signature phunk.
Right so we're just going to do that and it has a bunch of stuff right.
In particular it has things like parameters which is what we're going to look at in particular in this
video.
So let's take a look at the parameters and you'll notice by the way alter has written annotation that
we know how to pick that up from the notations dictionary but this just basically gives it to you along.
Let's just take a quick look.
My fonk annotations right.
We've seen that one before.
All right so every turn does nothing.
But if we do my funk
inspector Da'ath signature of my funk docs return and notation.
I need to put in the things in the right place.
Get it I'll get it eventually.
All right does nothing get it just returns that.
That one here but obviously we can pick it up from here as well.
Again it just shows you that inspect doesn't really do a whole lot more than what you can do yourself
by using introspection directly on the function.
It just packages that up nicely for us it's much easier to use.
So now let's look at the parameters that's the one really that I wanted to look at.
So I'm going to create a variable sig so I don't have to call inspect that signature every time.
And I'm going to assign it the signature object that we can that we get back when we call the signature
function.
OK.
So here we have psig and again Sigge is just that signature object that we saw earlier.
But we can look at the parameters of that.
So let's look at Sigge dot.
And that again is something else.
And essentially this is a dictionary so we can go ahead and say for key comma value in sogged up parameters.
Print OK Contrave and parameters dot items.
Sorry.
So it is going to iterate through those things.
And so you can see that we get a ride B C.
KW 1 2 and 3 and Kuang.
So we get all our parameters that we have in the function.
And then something that gets printed after that.
So let's go ahead and look at what the type is because right.
It's not just a string it's actually a type.
It's the parameter class.
Essentially these are instances of the parameter class.
So I'm going to do is I'm going to iterate through that but I'm going to say arm Raso V is a parameter
object.
Right.
So if we have a parameter object which has properties.
So let's go ahead and print
V.
Now it's going to print it out many times.
But let's see.
So we have some things like keyword only positional only.
So it's got a bunch of stuff right.
Default empty kind.
Name right annotation.
There's a bunch of properties that this parameter type has.
So let's go ahead and actually use that.
And one of the things that it has by the way is a name.
So let's go ahead and do all that.
So we're going to print name
and let's call it the dog name actually.
You know what let's do this.
So we're going to print the key for the key.
Is ok then from name.
We're going to take Paramo dog name so we will look at the Name property.
Then we're going to print out the default.
And that's going to be paragraph that defaults.
Right then we're also going to look at the notation
and then we're also going to look lastly at the kind
I would see that in the lecture.
And then lastly I'm going to print just a bunch of lines just to differentiate each real key and value
as it comes through this loop.
All right.
So here we go.
So keep a name.
A.
So you can see that the parameter name and the key are actually the same thing.
So technically we don't need if we're iterating through the parameters we can recover the name by using
brand name.
We don't need the key.
So I'm going to take that out and insert iterating the items.
I'm going to iterate just the values so we'll clean that up a little bit.
So of course we don't have a key.
Let's remove that and let's rerun that.
OK.
Cleaned up a little bit.
So here we have the name is A.
So this is the parameter A.
It has a default.
Well it doesn't have a default so it's got this empty right default.
The annotation is.
And I forgot to put a call on to differentiate where our text was and that value was.
So the notation is mandatory positional right.
That was our notation and the kind is positional or keyword.
B was the same thing except we had a default.
It also had an adaptation and it's kind was positioned keyword.
See.
Same thing right.
Then we have odds the kind is that positional right.
It was a variable number of positions.
Now we have our keyword arguments.
He would only arguments KW 1 kw 2 you can see that kind is key word only.
Again if you have a default you have the default if you don't have annotations you don't have them if
you have them there.
Right.
All that works out the way we would expect it.
And finally we have quads with our keyword which was a very small variable number sorry the variable
number of keyword only arguments.
So the one thing I also wanted to mention we talked about that in the lecture but there is an additional
kind that we can't actually define but that does exist which is positional only.
So let's take a look at that.
Let's look at help on did not remember that function when we're working with an Manza.
And you'll notice in the documentation that we have X come a y so it takes in two parameters and then
this slash over here.
And I know we've seen this documentation before and I never discussed that because I wanted to leave
that to this discussion here where it will now make more sense.
But what this means is that the preceding parameters are positional only so I can call this model by
saying let's say to carve a three right which gives us 0 and to write to div 3 0 2 mod 3 is 2.
That's true if you want something that maybe makes more sense for.
Right.
We have one on one what you cannot do is do this you cannot say X equals full and y equal 3 right.
These are the parameter names here.
X and Y.
So if you try and say div mod of that it tells you know the mom takes no keyword arguments.
That's because the arguments of the MOD for you know X and Y are positional only.
In fact let's use the Expect module to check that out.
So let's say inspect dot signature.
Right.
We have to look at the signature of Daivd model.
And then the parameters.
Right.
And then we have to iterate through that.
So for a program in that darte values.
OK.
Sorry.
I want to run it quite yet.
And we want to print Behram dot.
We'll just program that kind.
OK.
In this case and here we go we have positional only.
So these are the positional only types of parameters I discussed in the lecture.
We can't create those.
Right.
We don't have we cannot create we can't use a slash in our function definitions of python on the other
hand can write but we can't.
All right.
So thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.